Andy Taylor, after initially teaching in secondary schools, Andy has been involved with information assurance for over 35 years, starting when he served in the [[Royal Navy]] in several posts as security officer. He had responsibility for all classified and cryptographic materials in both warships and shore establishments, at times helping to maintain the effectiveness of the nuclear deterrent. After leaving the Royal Navy, he chose a further career in consultancy and was instrumental in achieving one of the first accreditations for a management consultancy against the information security standard ISO 17799 (now ISO/IEC 27001). As an independent information security consultant, he has provided information assurance advice to a wide variety of organisations in the public and private sectors including the Health Service, [[Home Office]], utility regulators, the Prison and Probation Services and web developers. He has developed and delivered a number of specialist security briefings to help educate users in the effective use of information in a secure manner, and has provided induction security training in many organisations. He has been directly involved with the development, establishment and maintenance of several different certification schemes relating to information security including the assessment of individuals and of training. He is a Fellow of both [[BCS]] and the Association for Project Management (APM), a Chartered IT Professional and a member of the Chartered Institute of Information Security. He has a passionate interest in maintaining the highest standards of information assurance and helping others to gain expertise in it.