---
tags:
- CYM040
---
## Learning objectives
- Relationship between [[algorithm]]s and [[key]]s. Likely to include [[hierarchy of keys]]
- The relationship between a [[cryptosystem]] and [[cryptography]]. Looking at weaknesses within the system, as well as in the [[algorithm]] being used 

## Webinar 2022-10-20 10:00

### Model of a [[cryptosystem]]
Read [[Everyday Cryptography#Chapter one#Basic model of a cryptosystem|chapter 1.4.3]] to [[Everyday Cryptography#Chapter one#Access control|chapter 1.4.6]] inclusive

### Focus on [[encryption]]
Remember that [[encryption]] gives us [[confidentiality]]. So let's get stuck in. [[Keith Martin|Keith]] reminds us of the definitions of [[plaintext]] and [[ciphertext]]. We get ciphertext from plaintext by using an [[encryption algorithm]], and the reverse with a [[decryption algorithm]].  Uses the example of the [[Atbash cipher]] (similar to a [[Caesar cipher]]), and asks if it gives us [[confidentiality]]. In line with [[Betteridge's law of headlines]], it does not. It's fairly simple to [[reverse-engineer]]. Additionally, the modern approach we take is that we should be able to declare the [[encryption algorithm]] we're using and still maintain [[confidentiality]]. If we send a [[ciphertext]] message of `GLKHVXIVG` and a sign that we're using the [[Atbash cipher]], it will be trivial to work out that the [[plaintext]] will be `top secret`, and all our plans will be ruined. The [[Atbash cipher]], like [[Morse Code]], always transforms letters in the same way. So how do we get around this? We need something that transforms the data. This is the [[key]]. 

So now, instead of directly encrypting our [[plaintext]], our [[encryption algorithm]] asks for a [[key]] as well as the plaintext. Now our [[cryptosystem]] looks like it does in [[fig. 1.2.png]]

We're sort of back at the same problem, aren't we. Because we still have to share the [[key]]. Martin shows us a [[Caesar cipher]], where the parties agree on a value by which the alphabet will be shifted. Hopefully they don't agree on 26. Although there are literally trillions of ways the alphabet can be re-arranged (26 factorial), it's still vulnerable to [[frequency analysis]] (among other approaches).

Martin analogises [[symmetric]] and [[asymmetric]] encryption with locks. Specifically, he compres the kind of lock that you might find on a door - which requires the same [[key]] to lock and unlock - and a padlock, which requires a [[key]] to unlock but whose locking "[[key]]" is just a well known, public [[algorithm]]. In the case of a padlock the algorithm is just "press the shaft into the hole until it goes click".
## Lecture 2
Start by reading [[Everyday Cryptography]], Section 1.4.7 to 1.4.8. Section 1.4.7 deals with the two types of [[cryptosystem]]: [[asymmetric]] and [[symmetric]]. 1.4.8 deals with the secrecy of the [[encryption key]], which varies between symmetric (must be kept secret, as it's the same as the [[decryption key]]) and asymmetric (can be made public)

We then move on to the applications of cryptography, starting with a mobile phone. In order to get the [[security service]] we said a mobile phone needs, we need to be able to encrypt communications between our device and the network. We'll use [[symmetric]] encryption, because it's cheaper and our mobile phones (until recently) weren't powerful enough to run [[asymmetric]] encryption. But symmetric means we need a shared key: how do we enable that? Simple. The service provider sends us the SIM, and they've already set the key on it. We never need to know it.
>[!question]
>Can this key be accessed? If it could be accessed, what could one do with that information?

The same mechanism is used with your chip and pin bank card. On a [[Wi-Fi]] network, you're the one who goes around putting the same key into every device, fighting with your remote control to put in the long and complex [[encryption key|password]] you've been given. 

All simple so far. But how do we generate and share a secret with a retailer when we're buying something online? I've never bought anything from roger-rabbit-memoribilia.com before (a fact of which I am not proud), so they don't know me from Eve. I can't just text them with an [[encryption key]]. So what's the solution? (I bet the solution is [[asymmetric]] encryption)

The solution is indeed asymmetric encryption, at least to start with. The retailer makes available a public key that I can use to encrypt the symmetric key I think we should use for the session. The retailer can then decrypt it, using their [[decryption key]], and now we both have access to it and can use the more efficient symmetric encryption. This protocol is also known as [[Transport Layer Security|TLS]].

We then move on to [[Everyday Cryptography#Section 1.5: cryptosystem security assumptions]]. 

How does [[DNSSEC]] work?

### 2.4
Let's start by reading 1.6 from [[Everyday Cryptography]], up to 1.6.4
