1. Question 1
	1. Your company uses Kerberos and IEEE 802.1x
		1. Outline the purpose of Kerberos and IEEE 802.1x in your company
			1. Kerberos is a ticket-based authentication system while IEEE 802.1X is a service-based authentication system. In this context, Kerberos probably provides access to network resources, while IEEE 802.1X provides access to the LAN/WLAN
		2. Outline how Kerberos and IEEE 802.1x work. In your answer identify the key components in each solution, and the use for each of these protocols. Note that you do not need to provide detailed protocol information, details of the protocols will not receive additional marks.
			1. Kerberos, as a ticket-based authentication system, works in broadly the following way. A client authenticates itself to an authentication server, which in turn forwards the username of the authenticated client to the key distribution center (KDC). To get around the problem of needing a ticket to get a ticket, the KDC issues a ticket-granting ticket and returns it to the originating client. If this ticket expires, it can be transparently renewed, as long as the user is logged into the client. When the user wants to access a service on another node in the network, the client sends their ticket to the ticket-granting service (TGS). As long as the service the client is trying to access has been registered with the TGS, the TGS can check if the user's ticket is still valid, and if the user has the correct permissions to access the service. The TGS then issues a ticket _specific to this service_ to the client, which then passes it along to the required service.
			2. In 802.1X, the client requests access to the network (LAN or WLAN) by passing credentials to an authenticator. These are then passed to an authentication server, which verifies if the credentials are valid and returns a positive or negative response. It may also return settings or configurations that have to be appled to that client's connection.
	2. A fingerprint access control system has default settings that hve a default FAR of 0.001 and a FRR of 0.01.
		1. Determine the average attack space for the system with the default settings.
			1. PASS
		2. The access control system settings can be tuned such that the FAR is reduced to 0.0003, however with these settings the FRR increases to 0.08. Determine the new average attack surface and explain whether you would recommend the business to use the new settings.
			1. PASS
	2. Your manager wants to improve the passwords used in the business. You are asked to critique the new password policy. The IT manager wants to increase the size of passwords from a maximum of 8 characters to a maximum of 16 characters with a minimum length of 10 characters. For the old 8 character and the new 16 character passwords, they can contain the upper and lower case English alphabet, numbers plus any of these 6 punctuation symbols . @ $ % & * However a user is not required to specifically use an upper or lower case letter, nor use numbers or punctuation marks.
		1. Calculate the attack space for the 8 character passwords
			1. $space = Choices^{length}=(26+26+6+10)^{8}=4.5\times10^{14}$
		2. Calculate the attack space for the 16 character passwords with minimum size of 10 characters.
			1. $space_{16}=68^{16}$ and $space_{10}=68^{10}$; therefore the attack space is $68^{16}-68^{10}=2.1\times10^{29}$
		2. What factors in choosing a password may reduce the attack space?
			1. Not using the full space; ie only using lower case, or not using numbers