This week: [[cryptography]]! Hopefully this is just going to be a re-stating of the content in [[1. CYM040 week 1]] and [[2. CYM040 week 2]]
## Learning Objectives

-   justify why we need [[cryptography]]
-   identify the [[security service]] cryptography can provide
-   explain the roles of [[cryptographic algorithm]] and [[key]]
## Lecture 1
- introduces [[encryption algorithm]] and [[cryptanalysis]]
- talks only about [[symmetric|symmetric cryptosystem]] without mentioning that there are other approaches
- apparently most modern [[cryptographic algorithm]] have at least $10^{38}$ keys
- can [[encryption]] provide [[data integrity]]? Nope, but [[cryptography]] can.
Let's skip the boring stuff and jump to 
## Lecture 5
- touches on [[MAC]]
- lecturer says that a MAC can provide authenticity but I think he means data origin authentication
- re-iterates that the [[key management system]] is the most important thing
- opens the question of how one would design a MAC function
## Lecture 6: what [[encryption]] can (and cannot) do
- not a silver bullet!
- even though it hides the message, it can't hide its length - so an interceptor can learn from [[traffic analysis]]. For example, a sudden large volume of messages between executives might imply an annoucement is imminent.
- How could we prevent or reduce traffic analysis? We could flood the network with noise at all times, or standardise message lengths by padding them before encryption.
- There is also the risk of a [[side-channel attack]]. For example, if the power consumption of the system can be recorded, and the algorithm is known, then increases and decreases in consumption can be used to infer parts of the key. 
## Lecture 7: what is an [[algorithm]]?
- in general, it is assumed that a [[cryptographic algorithm]] differs from an [[algorithm]] in that it is simple to compute
- when designing a [[cryptographic algorithm]], we fall back to [[cryptographic primitive]], two of which are:
	- [[block cipher]]
	- [[stream cipher]]
- each message should have a new [[initialization vector]], which should be randomly generated. This prevents the similar messages leaking data - for example, when the messages start in a similar way. 
- Computers have a hard time being [[random]], so we really on the outside world to generate it for us.
## Lecture 8: [[asymmetric|public-key cryptosystem]]
- [[cryptographic hash function]] a go-go!
- Then we jump to constructing a [[digital signature]], a key part of [[public key infrastructure]]
- 
