This week: 3 minutes of video and **13 hours of reading**
## Lesson 1
- Read sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.8 of [[Network Security Essentials]]
- then answer the following questions:
### What are the key differences between passive and active attackers on a network?
Passive: collecting/eavesdropping/unnoticed
Active: actively altering the state of the system or its operations

### What is considered the best defence against a passive [[attacker]]? Briefly justify
The best defense against passive attackers is [[encryption]] in transit. Although the attacker can still carry out [[traffic analysis]], they are unlikley to gain much by it.

## Lesson 2: The presentation layer
- Now we read [[Computer networks, a systems approach]] Chapter 7, section 7.1 up to 7.1.1
- Then we jump to 9.3 of the same book...
	- hell's bells, no. I'm not getting into that
	- Maybe come back to it
- Then it's off to section 12.3 of [[Elementary information security]]

#### Review
1. Briefly explain the end-to-end principle
	1. It’s easier and more effective to build network systems by placing most of the services at the endpoints instead of embedding the services within the network itself. Unfortunately, the end-to-end principle is being broken by various mechanisms being incorporated in the core of the network to provide control points or nodes to provide network services, such as for network address translation (NAT).
2. Explain the difference between ticket-based and service-based authentication
	1. In ticket-based authentication, users contact the authentication server, which provides a ticket for using the desired service. The ticket is valid for a short period of time. In service-based authentication, users contact the desired server, and the server then contacts the authentication server.
## Lesson 3: 
#### Review:
1. Create a basic attack tree for accessing a users email mailbox. Consider three cases – accessing the users personal computer, accessing the network or accessing the email server. Your answer does not need to identify the attack mechanisms in detail.
	1. Access the user's computer
		1. Physical attack
		2. Surveil the user
		3. Copy device and attempt to crack it
	2. Access the network
		1. Get default VPN credentials
		2. Social engineer the network team
		3. Physically access and tap the network
	3. Access the mail server
		1. Physical access by social engineering
		2. Credentials
		3. Phishing
## Lesson 4: Network security
- first reading is from [[Elementary information security]], 10.1
- Then on to 12.4 of the same book
- Then [[Elementary information security#14.4 Enterprise firewall]] of the same book
- [[indicators of compromise]]

## Lesson 5: Network encryption
### Virtual private networking and privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs)
- good lord.
- in [[Elementary information security]], notes on:
	- 13.1
	- 13.2
	- 13.3
	- 13.4
	- 13.5
	- 13.6
- a total of 86 pages

Some material from the [[National Cyber Security Centre|NCSC]]:

### Virtual private networks
Link: https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/collection/device-security-guidance/infrastructure/virtual-private-networks
- They point out that not everyone needs a VPN
- And that they are complex to manage
- And could be negated by a [[zero-trust architecture]], though they're not exactly a walk in the park either

## Lesson 6: [[Internet]] security