## Lesson 1
Introducing the [[information security management system]]
- how do we encourage staff to view security positively, even when it gives them extra work?
- how can the efficacy of an [[information security management system|ISMS]] be measured?
	- counting security events over a period of time - attempted connections, attempted intrusions, breaches
	- see also [[security information and event management]]
- how do incident response teams work? Who should be in an incident response team?
- Here's a white paper on security metrics: [[A guide to security metrics]]
### Lecture 2: Security policies and controls
- security policies become more detailed as they get closer to the work that's being done
	- (I think this brings a danger of siloing and not viewing risks holistically)
- Catalogues of security controls exist: one from [[NIST]] ([[NIST SP 800-53]]) and of course [[ISO 27002]]
- there are templates for policies, but it's not enough to just copy-paste. We should look at the organisation's aims, risk appetite, and threat surface before writing a security policy
- Shout out to UK Government for developing the ancestor of [[ISO 27001]]. It was fast tracked into an ISO standard
## Lesson 2: managing risk
### Lecture 3: Risk assessment and risk management
- cyber risk management is a subset of the wider organisational risk management approach
- [[ISO 31000]] is your friend for risk management and risk assessment
- there are three main stages to risk assessment:
	1. identification
	2. analysis: a function of likelihood and impact
	3. evaluation
- this allows for prioritisation of risk treatment
	- note - this does not consider associated costs. It is purely a function of likelihood and impact
	- however, one treatment (accept) allows you to consider the risk 'treated', even if you've done nothing to actually reduce the risk
- in what circumstances might a new, complete risk assessment be required outside of the normal cycle?
	- a new vulnerability
	- a significant change in circumstances, for example a new owner with little understanding of the engineering or legislative landscape he's operating in (see above)
	- a change in the legislative regime governing the organisation
- time to read the free brochure about [[ISO 31000]], called [[Risk management]]
### Discussion prompt
>[!question]
>In the lecture, I briefly outlined the ISO 31000 approach to risk management. I also spent some time examining the core of the risk management model, namely the three-step risk assessment process. The first step in risk assessment is risk identification. Clearly, getting this right is key, since if a serious risk is missed then there is a danger that no protection will be implemented to mitigate this risk.
>Please take some time to express in the discussion forum how you might approach identifying the risks facing an organisation. Should you start with the assets you are trying to protect, and try to think what might go wrong? Or is there a better approach?

>[!note]
>You cannot defend what you don't know about. So the first step, for me, is an organisation-wide review of the assets. This must include an amnesty for anyone running shadow IT that we don't know about - a database some executive assistant put together in an ancient version of Access, for example, or the WiFi network an enterprising developer manager put on a corporate credit card to get around our VPN.
>From here, we start to look at the attack surface, in conjunction with the organisation's risk appetite and threat vectors. Are advanced persistent threats in the organisation's threat model? Or is the more likely issue ransomeware, delivered through our unpatched, outsourced servers?
>From here, we start to build attack trees. We identify ways to make these attacks more costly, and implement the ones we can afford, and that will deliver the most impact.

### Lecture 4 - Risk treatment
- modification: risk reduction by some control. These controls might be 
	- preventative, whereby we try to prevent a risk occuring
	- reactive controls, which occur after a breach or incident has occured
- acceptance: we'll live with it
- sharing: subcontracting some risk to others
	- don't love this, and it should be considered in the context of reputational risk
- risk avoidance: just stop doing the risky thing
## Lesson 3: [[ISO 27001]] and the [[information security management system|ISMS]]
### Lecture 5: the [[information security management system|ISMS]]
- [[ISO 27001]] compliance is a good baseline for a decently sized organisation
- The standard lays out the It specifies steps an organization must take in establishing, implementing, maintaining and continually improving an [[information security management system|ISMS]].
- It's fairly brief, and outlines steps at a high level. More low level guidance is provided in other standards in the 2700 series
- The standard lays out 7 areas to consider:

#### Context of the organisation
The organisation must identify all the interested parties (in the organisation? in the system, eg shareholders?) and their needs for cybersecurity. The scope of the [[information security management system|ISMS]] must be decided - that is, we must make a decision about what assets we want to protect

#### Leadership
One requirement for leadership is, obviously, to show leadership. That is, there must be top level support for cybersecurity, and that must be communicated clearly through the organisation. Additionally, a top level security policy must be established, documented, and again disseminated to the organisation. Finally, roles and responsibilities for the [[information security management system|ISMS]], and reporting its performance, must be set up

#### Planning
An appropriate risk assessment process should be set up. Criteria should be decided for risk appetite, and consequently risk acceptance. Additionally a process should be agreed for risk treatment to cover selection of treatment options, selection of controls, and gaining acceptance of residual risks.

#### Support
Sufficient support (in material terms) must be provided to the ISMS. That is, the staff must be qualified, and that every employee has a good idea of the awareness of security policies and the ISMS

#### Operation
The organisation, implementation and control of the process. 

#### Performance evaluation
Firstly, that the organisation itself is reviewing the effectiveness of its ISMS. Secondly, that there are periodic audits (remember that retrosespectives and reviews are not equivalent to audits!) of the ISMS.

#### Improvement
The organisation must have the capacity to react to security breaches, including fixing the immediate breach, conducting root cause analysis, and modifying the ISMS to prevent recurrence if possible.

### Lecture 5: Now let's see what [[NIST]] has
NIST, although it doesn't mention an [[information security management system|ISMS]], details a fairly good approach to creating one. They use the following core functions, and describe outcomes, rather than processes, as in [[ISO 27001]]

#### Identify
Identify risks to assets, systems, people, data, and capabilities

#### Protect
Develop and implement appropriate security controls. These are the preventative controls

#### Detect
Security controls to identify the occurence of a cybersecurity event, such as access monitoring, user profiling, etc

#### Respond
Controls, processes, runbooks etc that are activated when there is an incident

#### Recover
Maintaining resilience for the moment that there will be an incident, and knowing how you'll do it. These might be things like game days, or table-top exercises

There are also levels of maturity, graded on a four-point scale, against a number of characteristics. NIST does not support certification.

#### So which is better?
Impossible to say. Stop asking this question. Additionally, they both work. They require you to take a risk based approach. They have catalogues of controls. NIST only allows for self-certification, so if you're going abroad or needing to interact with others, an externally audited approach like ISO27001 is probably a better approach.

### CyberEssentials (and CyberEssentials+)
A very basic set of requirements from [[National Cyber Security Centre|NCSC]]. 
- firewalls
- secure configuration
- user access control
- malware protection
- security update management

Cyber Essentials is self-assessed, whereas Plus requires technical validation from an independent third party

## Lesson 4
### Lecture 7: Responding to a security breach
- indication of a breach might appear in your [[security information and event management|SIEM]]
	- a [[security information and event management|SIEM]] will likely incorporate data from an [[intrusion detection system]]
- it may also come through staff channels. Staff should be encouraged to self-report accidents - which requires a very strong security and blameless culture - but also to report suspicions of an incident having occured.
- a security breach doesn't necessarily mean the [[information security management system|ISMS]] is broken, but the incident review should identify areas for improvement. The ISMS is definitely broken if recommendations from previous incident reviews have _not_ been implemented
- organisations should have an Incident Response Team, an IRT, in place for when security incidents occur. They should be briefed on the internal playbook, as well as reporting requiremens for their local legislative regime. They should have practised incident response in a safe environment; be people senior enough to effect change at pace; and have varied backgrounds from across the organisation.
- Reporting may require the unpleasant task of drafting external comms. This is where a dedicated writer is absolutely vital to the incident process, in my opinion. Look at the [poor state of the Rackspace comms when they got popped recently](https://status.apps.rackspace.com/index/viewincidents?group=2) (read from the bottom upwards)
- 